How does a camel survive
in this harsh environment?
Jehovah has uniquely equipped
the camel for desert life.
What is inside the camel’s famous hump?
It’s mostly fat.
A healthy camel’s hump
can weigh 36 kilograms,
or 80 pounds.
It can draw on this fat reserve
when food is limited.
When given an opportunity,
a thirsty camel
can drink up to 95 liters,
or 25 gallons, of water
in just a few minutes.
Yet, their bodies lose little moisture,
even in extreme heat.
As a result, they can go weeks
or even months without drinking water.
The camel’s impressive ability
to absorb and conserve
nourishment and water
enables it to endure.
High in the mountains of North America,
living conditions
are unfavorable for most plants.
Yet, the bristlecone pine
not only survives
but can thrive at some 3,000 meters,
or 10,000 feet, above sea level.
These remarkable trees
can live for thousands of years.
One key to their survival
lies in their roots.
Shallow branching roots
spread out and gather up
as much water as possible.
Large, strong roots
firmly anchor the trees
against intense winds.
These remarkable trees are designed
to make the most
of a challenging environment.
As a result,
they are among the oldest living organisms
on the planet.
Butterflies play
a vital role in pollinating flowers.
They also accomplish
amazing feats of endurance.
Each year in North America,
as many as 300 million monarch butterflies
complete a migration
of some 4,000 kilometers,
or 2,500 miles,
from as far north as Canada
to a forest in Mexico.
Butterflies are also surprisingly resilient.
Some butterflies
have been observed feeding and flying
with up to 70 percent
of their wing surfaces missing.
Butterflies may appear
to be delicate and fragile,
but these small creatures
display remarkable endurance.
As its name suggests,
most arctic terns
breed in the earth’s far northern regions,
where they take advantage
of the short Arctic summer
to feed and raise chicks.
But as winter approaches,
they fly south
to the Antarctic region, where they greet
the arrival of summer
in the Southern Hemisphere.
When summer ends,
they return to the Arctic,
completing the longest-known
annual migration of any animal.
What guides the arctic tern
to reach its destination?
Scientists believe that the arctic terns
can sense the earth’s magnetic field
and use it for orientation.
But how they do this still remains a mystery.
Jehovah has given the arctic tern
an accurate means of guidance
to complete its long journey.
The blacksmith lapwing, or plover,
is found in Africa.
It nests on the ground, often near water.
Its choice of nest location
can bring it in contact
with much larger animals.
When its nest is threatened,
the lapwing sounds the alarm.
Sometimes a lapwing will attempt
to draw an intruder away from its nest.
At other times,
the bird will courageously stand its ground,
spreading its wings and crying harshly.
Lapwings have been known to attack humans
and square off against elephants and buffalo,
at times giving the larger animal
a sharp strike with its beak.
Jehovah gave the lapwing
the instinctive courage
to protect its young,
enabling it to survive.
Very little rain falls
in the arid wilderness of Sinai.
One of the few types of trees
to grow here is the acacia.
The wood of the acacia tree is dense,
hard, and resistant to insects.
Some types of acacia trees
are protected by thick bark
and long, sharp thorns.
Acacia trees often grow closely together.
The branches of some acacias
interlock together,
forming dense canopies.
Other acacias grow in tangled thickets.
These natural defenses
help the acacia tree to endure.